What I was trying to do
I chose to work through Gephi and RStudio for the two exercises this week. 
As I understand it, Gephi allows you to visually see and manipulate data and RStudio is more mathematical 
and command-line based, allowing for data to be pulled by topics (which could be then fed into Gephi after they are cleaned up)

What I did
Gephi
I had trouble running the "force-directed layout" until I read through the rest of the instructions and hen it made sense.
*still having problems with my tendacy to not read all the text before trying to do something*
**while working on the data, it looked messy and I was unsure what it
was really showing me because it didn't include the names in the 
"working part" - so it took me extra time to make sure that I was doing it right
**The instructions are pretty easy to follow using this one layout - Force Atlas 2**
I did have some initial trouble understanding what Force Atlas was supposed to do and how it worked - again, simple issues 
that I sorted out easily by referring to the Slack channel and running ideas past my brother

RStudio
#Stuck
I have gotten to this point
"mallet.top.words(topic.model, topic.words[7,])"
Although I don't really understand the technicalities of how I got here and what is going wrong.
RStudio returns this error: 
Error in .jcall("RJavaTools", "Ljava/lang/Object;", "invokeMethod", cl,  : 
  java.lang.NullPointerException

I checked Slack for any ideas and posted a note asking for help. Prof. responded with what I feared: the file was empty.
Consulted my brother who pointed out that I accidently skipped a step because I misunderstood the instructions to read "if you already did the above, ignore this step" and that 
by doing this, I deleted the contents of the file. We went back and redid that step, and were able to continue with the tutorial. 

The way it manipulated the data reminded me a bit of gephi. Not sure what I will do with it, but looking forward to trying it out tomorrow.

I also pulled the github repo for this week because I created (with help) a new one since I'm now back on DH Box. Then I synced it again and pushed it back.

Things that were hard
Gephi
**One thing I did not like about Gephi is that it appeared rather utilitarian and I had trouble intuitively navigating it - not user friendly**
-this was especially true for the *difficulty* I had in figuring out
how to follow the instructions on filtering out the unconnected points - I kept deleting the wrong information while following the instructions until I changed the "O" to "1" - I found that the program-specific language wasn't really clear or easy for beginners to use

RStudio
Probably my biggest challenge is still not completely understanding what I was doing and why it was either 
working or not working (this often means that even for simple mistakes I need help pointing out 
what I am working on so I can see why it is right or wrong)
I found that for this RStudio especially, I did not understand the instructions. However, I have also found that as I begin to work
on my final project using the Equity files, I am more comfortable changing parts of the tutorials and
modifying them to use the files/commands/ etc I want, so I am hoping that I will have success with replicating 
this tutorial.
I do know that my brain doesn't specialize in this type of work and learning and that I probably will
bring forward some ideas and methods for future use, rather than radically switching the way I do research or use the computer. 
There are things I am starting to do without the tutorials (like the command line stuff and markup), but
my grasp on the rest is still mostly tied to the tutorials.


Thoughts on where to go next
I am hoping that after doing some 
OCR cleanup on my Equity files, I can use RStudio to pull out important themes and words to explore further
and I can use Gephi to visually graph it. My ideas and aims will probably change over the coming week as I work on it.

Final Project
I began working on the final project this week. I used wikipedia to decide what timeframe I wanted to focus on, based on 
topics that might have been in the news during that time. I chose 1897-1902 (before and during the Boer War and it's
potential impact on English/French Canadian relations due to conscription). I downladed the files, using a mixture of the
wget command from the workbook and the command suggested in the tutorial the workbook linked to.
I was proud of the way I did not give up, but added and switched things around until I had a command that did what I wanted it to.
wget -r --no-parent -w 2 --limit-rate=20k http://collections.banq.qc.ca:8008/jrn03/equity/src/1897/ -A .txt
